The file NKJP1M-tagged-frequency.tab has 7 column for each entry from the fre-
quency list for NKJP1M.

The file NKJP1M-frequency-with-corrections.tab has either 9 or 11 columns. In
the former case, the columns are: word form (incorrect), lemma, word form (co-
rrected), tag etc.

In the latter, the columns are: word form (incorrect), lemma (incorrect), tag
(incorrect), word forms (correct), lemmas (correct), tags (correct) etc. In
this case, the corrected form contains many tokens, which are separated with
| signs (as well as their tags and lemmas).

1. Word form.
2. Lemma.
3. Tag. 
4. Frequency.

5. Adherence to the morphologic rules extracted from SGJP (see resources for
SGJP).
Possible values are:
COMPOS-* - the triple adheres to a rule marked with asterisk (ie. unproductive,
exceptional).
COMPOS-ndm - the triple adheres to a non-inflecting rule (without affixes).
COMPOS - the triple adheres to some other, regular rule.
COMPOS-ALT - the triple is catched by one of the exceptions to those rules, li-
sted in resources/SGJP/alt.tab.
COMPOS-LWR, COMPOS-LWR-*, COMPOS-LWR-ndm, COMPOS-LWR-ALT - the triple adheres
after converting both the word form and lemma to lowercase.
NCOMPOS - all the others (no rule).

6. Presence of this triple (word form, lemma, tag) in SGJP.
I've used loosened criteria of tag equivalence (ie. treating tags n1, n2, n3,
p2, p3 all as equal in both resources, since there is disagreement in using 
them).
Possible values are:
SGJP-EXACT - the triple was found in SGJP exactly as it is in NKJP1M.
SGJP-LMM-UNCAPITAL - the triple was found in SGJP with the first letter of the
lemma converted to lowercase.
SGJP-LMM-CAPITAL - the triple was found in SGJP when all the letters in the le-
mma but the first were converted to lowercase.
SGJP-LMM-LOWER - the triple was found in SGJP when the whole lemma was conve-
rted to lowercase.
SGJP-BTH-LOWER - the triple was found in SGJP when both the lemma and word form
were converted to lowercase.
NON-SGJP - all the others.

7. Word classification.
Possible values are:
NCH - not checked (automatic label for all entries which are NOT NON-SGJP), may
be actually any of the others.
SYMB - a number, abbreviation, other symbol (eg. signs of articles in legal
acts).
COMPD - a compound form, with the second part after a hyphen, or apostrophe.
PN - proper name. This includes the following cases, spelled in lowercase acco-
rding to the standard ortography: 1) names of inhabitants and adjectives deri-
ved from the names of places, nations etc. 2) words that are part of encyclo-
paedic knowledge: names of races of pets, chemical substances, names of things
referring to them by their brand (eg. ford, mercedes), names of biological spe-
cies, names of currencies. 3) symbolic names (cryptonyms) of industrial products
or scientific entities. Phonetic spellings are also included (such as "pep-
sikola"), since they appear in oral transciptions.
ACRO - acronyms, treated as a subset of proper names; but if they are inflected,
they are COMPD.
WEB - web addresses used as names of entities, used by humans (if they are just
pointers for computers, they end up as SYMB's).
CW - common word.
SPEC - word of limited usage (scientific, vocational), but excluding slang.
NEOL - neologism.
EXT - external, non-Polish word.

8. Correctness.
Possible values are:
CORR - correctly spelled word.
ERR - incorrectly spelled word (including forms considered non-standard Polish
*but not* dialectal).
CERR - common error, often not perceived as such in less official contexts.
DIAL - a dialectal or archaic form.
PHON - word spelled incorrectly, but in a way clearly intended to reflect its 
pronunciation.
TAGD - word spelled correctly, but there's a disagreement between NKJP1M and
SGJP in its part of speech classification (of type  "chory" - adj or subst?,
"cierpiący" - adj or pact?).
PLTAN - plurale tantum - word spelled correctly, but NKJP1M lemmatises it in
plural and SGJP in singular.
TAGE - in few obvious, unambigous instances - word incorrectly tagged by NKJP1M,
only when the correct tag would make it CORR.
ERR-TAGE, CERR-TAGE are possible when both the form and its tag are incorrect.

Values added to the frequency-with-corrections file:
DERR - deliberate error; these are not useful to model human error making, as
they obviously deviate from the ortographic norm for some conscious reason.
TERR - tokenization error; these are only parts of tokens that shouldn't have
been indicated as separate in the freqlist.
